© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential.

Science Matters

3M State of Science Index Manifesto

**Science matters to 3M** because it is how we solve the world’s

greatest challenges to transform businesses, improve lives and

make our world a better place. In tandem with our principles,

science enables us to lead societal change - to make the world

safer, healthier, greener and brighter.

**Science matters to society** because exponential population
growth will bring future challenges that only science can solve.

**Science** _**should**_ **matter to people** because our daily lives and

future quality of life depend on it. But _does_ it?

Since 2018, we have tracked how the world values science

through the proprietary 3M State of Science Index (SOSI) - a

global, original research survey to explore the image of science.

Insights from the study power 3M’s science advocacy efforts

around the world.

Evolution of the State of Science Index


**Wave 1**

2018

**Wave 2**

2019

**Wave 3**

2020

_Before_

_COVID-19_

**Wave 4**

2020

_During_

_COVID-19_

_Pulse_


**Fielded June 14-August 26, 2017**

Benchmarked perceptions, sentiment and trust toward
science around the world for the first time.

**Fielded July 13-September 10, 2018**

Tracked whether and how perceptions of science have
changed over one year.

**Fielded August 19-October 22, 2019**

Probed deeper into timely topics around the world,
such as STEM inequity, sustainability, etc.

**Fielded July 22-August 16, 2020**

Aimed to understand how perceptions of science have
shifted since the onset of COVID-19.


**Wave 5**

2021

**Wave 6**

~~2022~~

_YEAR 5_


**Fielded February 2, 2021–March 23, 2021**

Sought to understand and forecast the long-term impact
of COVID-19 on perceptions of science.

**Fielded September 27, 2021– December 17, 2021**

Moves beyond COVID-19 to explore the future of science
and capture sentiment related to 3M’s core brand
priorities of STEM equity, health equity,
upskilling/trades, and environmental
justice/sustainability.


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 3

**Who?**

1,000 General Population
respondents per country

about 10% of respondents are considered Opinion Leaders

**NEW in 2022 – Expanded US sample to analyze the results across**
**the following key segments in a more granular way:**

Oversample of Gen Z (16-24) in the US

Oversample of Black/African Americans
and Hispanic Americans in the US


US

Canada

UK

Germany

Poland

Brazil


**Where?**

17 Countries:


Mexico

Japan

Singapore

South Korea

China

India


France

UAE

Italy

Colombia

Australia



  - When comparisons across previous waves of data are made, the 10-country tracking average is used, rather than the 17-Country average. This average is

made up of all countries we have consistently surveyed across all five waves (Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Poland, Singapore, UK, US)

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 4

Additional survey methodology details









|Col1|Col2|
|---|---|
|Survey methodology &<br>timing|20-minute survey, combination offline and online interviewing*<br>• Fielding/interviewing completed September 27, 2021–December 17, 2021<br>• Data processing, quality control checking, and weighting completed December 18, 2021-January 10, 2022|
|2022 Global|17-country average<br>• All data that that is not tracking, and that we are not comparing with previous waves, is represented by the 17-country global average.|
|Global trends:<br>2018 – 2022<br>(6 waves)|10-country tracking average<br>• When comparisons across previous waves of data are made, the 10-country tracking average is used, rather than the 17-country average. This<br>average is made up of all countries we have consistently surveyed across all six waves.**|
|Margin of error|At the 95% confidence level<br>• 17-country average: +/- 0.8 percentage points<br>• 10-country average: +/- 1.0 percentage points<br>• Each individual country: +/- 3.10 percentage points|
|Data in this report|Unless otherwise noted, all data in this report is from the 2022 survey.|
|Science was<br>defined as:|Science is the process of pursuing knowledge about the world and how things in the world work through logically<br>gathering, observing, experimenting and applying truths on a particular subject.|



 - Slight weighting was done on demographics for each country to achieve better national representation and ensure sample is consistent year over year.
**Changes made to countries surveyed over waves: From wave 1 to wave 2, two countries were removed (France and Spain) and replaced with Saudi Arabia and South Korea. From wave 3 to 4, South Africa and India were not included, and
UAE was added. From wave 4 to 5, Spain was replaced with France and Colombia, Australia and Italy were added for the first time.

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 5

Setting the scene

We have entered a point in time in which living with a global pandemic
represents the world's 'new' normal. As we acclimated to this new normal, did
our new-found trust in science (driven by the pandemic) continue to thrive?
Or did pandemic fatigue set in and return us to a state of indifference?

Appreciation for science did continue in 2022 - and its impact on our lives
remains palpable, highly relevant and deeply personal. Mutations such as
Delta and Omicron likely serve as a reminder of our dependence on science to
go about our everyday lives. But the spotlight on science has shifted with the
arrival of a new theme in 2022 –and one that may pose the biggest threat we
~~h~~ aveseen to t ~~h~~ e image o ~~f~~ science: Misin ~~f~~ ormation.

This issue is all-the-more important because people increasingly recognize the
intersection between science and social impact as they look to science to
solveproblems beyond the pandemic, such as health equity, STEM equity and
sustainability.

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 6

Our global themes for 2022:

**Image of science**

~~**High**~~ ~~**trust**~~ ~~**in**~~ ~~**science**~~ ~~**holds**~~ ~~**steady**~~ **,** ~~**but**~~ ~~**misinformation**~~ ~~**threatens**~~ ~~**scientific**~~ ~~**credibility**~~


**Upskilling and**
**STEM equity**
**Sustainability** **Health equity**
**trade skills**


**Future technology**

**Innovation and**

**transparency will**

**drive science**

~~**appreciation**~~ ~~**in**~~ ~~**the**~~

**future.**

Artificial intelligence, while
considered exciting, also sparks
concerns in many people.
Demonstrating ethical and
transparent use of new
technologies will be crucial to

maintain trust.


**There is significant**

**work to be done to**

**improve diversity**

~~**and**~~ ~~**inclusion**~~ ~~**in**~~

**STEM.**

While people claim diversity in
science is important, their views
on representation in science for
gender, POC and LGBTQ+ do not
align.


**Skilled trades have**

**an image problem**
**–people do not see**

~~**career**~~ **.**
~~**growth**~~

Employers have a responsibility
to offer upskilling opportunities,
especially in digital skills, to
promote career advancement.


**Climate change is**
**personal –many**
**fear displacement**

~~**as**~~ ~~**a**~~ ~~**result**~~ ~~**of**~~

**extreme weather.**

Expectations are high – science,
corporations and communities
all need to be a part of building

a sustainable future.


**Improving access**
**to quality**
**healthcare is a top**
**priority for**
**science.**

Addressing the social drivers of
health will help to close
inequitable gaps within care.


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 7

### Image of science

Scientists are still trusted, and people want to hear more from
them

**Trust in science and scientists**

_**Completely/somewhat agree**_

I trust Science I trust Scientists

91%
90% 90%


80%

79%

2018 2019 2020

Pre-Pandemic


2020

Pandemic Pulse




2021 2022


Q2. How much do you agree or disagree with the following statements? I trust science; I trust scientists – Agree Summary- Base= 2022 10-Country

Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; 2021 10-Country Tracking Average (10,045) Fielded Feb-Mar 2021; 2020 Pandemic Pulse 10
Country Tracking Average (10,081) Fielded Jul-Aug 2020; 2020 Pre-Pandemic 10-Country Tracking Average (10,071) Fielded Aug-Oct 2019; 2019 10
Country Tracking Average (10,015) Fielded Jul-Sep 2018; 2018 10-Country Tracking Average (10,026) Fielded Jun-Aug 2017

Q5. How much do you agree or disagree with the following statement? I want to hear more from scientists about their work – Agree Summary –

Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 9

Scientists are the most credible source for scientific information,
followed closely by medical professionals

**% who believe scientific information coming from each source:**








|Mostly believe:<br>85% 84%<br>77%<br>74%<br>Scientists & Medical/ Documentaries Teachers*<br>engineers* healthcare<br>professionals*|Col2|Mixed believe & skeptical:<br>64% 63%<br>60%<br>46%<br>44%|Col4|Mostly skeptical:<br>26% 25%<br>20%|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Mostly believe:<br>85% 84%<br>77%<br>74%<br>Scientists & Medical/ Documentaries Teachers*<br>engineers* healthcare<br>professionals*||Public My regular newsFriends or family Colleagues Company<br>health officials^ outlets websites||Politicians^ Social media Celebrities<br>posts|



- New option asked in 2022 use 17-Country Average

^ Not asked in UAE

Q4. When you read or hear something about science from each of the following sources, are you more likely to be skeptical of it or believe it? 
Believe it Summary - Base= Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; 2022 10-Country Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded

Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 10

Complete trust in news stories is low across topics – but trust in
stories about science leads the pack

**% who completely trust news stories about the following topics:**




Q6. To what extent, if at all, do you trust news stories (i.e., in online, print or broadcast/ TV news outlets) about each of the following topics? Base=

2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 11

Science is more relevant to younger generations

Since 2018, the importance of science has risen 8 points. Younger generations (61% of Gen Z + Millennials) are more likely than older
generations (53% of Gen X + Baby Boomers) to agree that science is very important to their everyday lives.

**Science is very important to me in my everyday life**

_**% agree**_

56%
55%



44%

2018 2019 2020

Pre-Pandemic


2020

Pandemic Pulse


52%

2021 2022


Q1. Thinking about the present-day, how important do you feel science is to you in your everyday life? - Very important Summary - Base= 2022 10
Country Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; 2021 10-Country Tracking Average (10,045) Fielded Feb-Mar 2021; 2020 Pandemic Pulse

10-Country Tracking Average (10,081) Fielded Jul-Aug 2020; 2020 Pre-Pandemic 10-Country Tracking Average (10,071) Fielded Aug-Oct 2019; 2019

10-Country Tracking Average (10,015) Fielded Jul-Sep 2018; 2018 10-Country Tracking Average (10,026) Fielded Jun-Aug 2017

Q3. How much do you think about the impact of science in your everyday life? Base= 2022 10-Country Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded Sept-Dec

2021; 2020 Pre-Pandemic 10-Country Tracking Average (10,071) Fielded Aug-Oct 2019

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 12

We continue to fiercely stand-up for science today


**2020**

**Pre-Pandemic**
###### ~~**20%**~~

I **stand up for science**

when debating its
merits with others


**2020**

**Pandemic Pulse**
###### ~~**54%**~~

COVID-19 has made

me **more likely to**
**advocate for science**


**2021**
###### ~~**75%**~~

I **defend science**

when someone is

questioning it


**2022**
###### ~~**75%**~~

I **defend science** when

someone is

questioning it


2020 Pre-Pandemic: Q18. Which, if any, of the following do you do to support science activities and advancing scientific discoveries? Select all that

apply. Base:= 2020 Pre-Pandemic 14-Country Average (14,105)
2020 Pandemic Pulse: Q16. Has the Coronavirus/COVID-19 outbreak made you more or less likely to advocate for science? – More likely Summary –

Base= Base= 2020 Pandemic Pulse 11-Country Average (11,082)

Q5. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - I defend science when someone is questioning it – Agree

Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; 2021 17-Country Average (17,090) Fielded Feb-Mar 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 13

Science skepticism rose slightly in 2022

**“I am skeptical of science”**

_**% agree**_

2020

Pre-Pandemic











Q2. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? – I am skeptical of science. – Agree Summary – Base= 2022 10
Country Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; Base= 2021 10-Country Tracking Average (10,045) Fielded Feb-Mar 2021; 2020 Pandemic

Pulse 10-Country Tracking Average (10,081) Fielded Jul-Aug 2020; 2020 Pre-Pandemic 10-Country Tracking Average (10,071) Fielded Aug-Oct 2019;

2019 10-Country Tracking Average (10,015) Fielded Jul-Sep 2018; 2018 10-Country Tracking Average (10,026) Fielded Jun-Aug 2017

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 14

Misinformation and disinformation are pervasive, regardless of
platform or subject
###### **85%**

agree there is widespread
misinformation* in **social**

~~**media**~~ ~~today~~

|Col1|Col2|Col3|
|---|---|---|
||and||
||||

###### **72%**

agree there is widespread
misinformation* in **traditional**

**news**
today

*By “misinformation” below, we mean false or inaccurate information, especially that which is deliberately meant to sway views/opinions.

Q10. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements about misinformation? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 15

Platform matters: people do not trust science facts on social media
as much as on traditional media





Q7. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - I trust science-based facts published in social media (i.e.,

Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, Instagram, etc.); I trust science-based facts published in the news (i.e., in online, print or broadcast/ TV news outlets).

Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 16

Perception of science as being divisive for people with opposing
views is a growing trend


Science **unifies** people with opposing


people with opposing Science **divides** people

Vs.
views with opposing views


with opposing views


2022

2021







Q48. Which of the following statements are you more likely to agree with? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 17

Yet, we can agree there are consequences if people do not value
science or trust news about science


Top 3 **consequences** if people do not trust stories about science
published in the news:
_(Among those who agree there are negative consequences)_


~~**61%**~~ More public health crises

**consequences** to society **57%** More division within society

**53%** Increase in the severity of climate change effects


~~**61%**~~ More public health crises



**57%** More division within society


Q5. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - There are negative consequences for society if people do not

value science. Base= 2022 10-Country Tracking Average (10,127) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

Q9. What do you think are the top consequences if people do not trust stories about science published in the news (i.e., in online, print or
broadcast/ TV news outlets)? Please select top three. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 18

### STEM equity


**+**

Key challenges to pursuing a STEM education include access and
affordability

**Top barriers to students pursuing a STEM education**

_**% selected**_


Access (NET)*

~~Inability~~ ~~to~~ ~~afford~~ ~~a~~ ~~strong~~ ~~STEM~~ ~~education~~

Students having too many personal
responsibilities to focus on a STEM education

Bias/prejudice (NET)**^

Nothing is standing in the way of students
accessing a strong STEM education in school


76%


47%


84%

Believe there are barriers to

students pursuing a STEM
education


37%

33%


16%


^ Not asked in UAE

- Access NET includes “Lack of STEM classes offered in school”, “Not enough STEM educators/teachers” and “Lack of internet access”
** Bias/prejudice NET includes “Bias/prejudice against girls pursuing STEM” and “Bias/prejudice against ethnic/racial minorities pursuing STEM”

Q19. What do you believe are the top barriers, if any, standing in the way of students currently accessing a strong science, technology, engineering or math

(STEM) education within your country? Select top three. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 20

Top roadblocks to a STEM career are self-doubt, bias and
representation

**Following an inability to afford a STEM education (39%) and a lack of access to**
**strong STEM classes (32%) the top barriers to pursuing a STEM career are** :
_(Among those who considered a STEM career, but are not currently in a STEM field)_

I do/did not believe I am/was smart enough (25%)


More than

~~**1**~~ ~~**in**~~ ~~**3**~~

not currently in a STEM field, have

considered pursuing STEM (37%)


Experienced bias or discrimination (NET) (22%)

I don't know anyone who worked in STEM that looks like me (19%)


Q24. Have you ever considered pursuing a career in STEM? Base= Those who do not work in STEM 2022 17-Country Average (7,558) Fielded Sept-Dec

2021

Q25. What stopped/is stopping you from pursuing a career in science, technology, engineering or math (STEM)? Select all that apply. Base= Those who

have considered a career in STEM but didn’t go into STEM 2022 17-Country Average (2,718) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 21

Corporations should contribute to STEM
education – and start early

**Top action corporations should prioritize around STEM**
**education:**

Create resources for children to get involved in science at an
#1
early age (33%)

Host programs like internships, summer camps, and workshops to
~~#2~~
help students pursue STEM (24%)

Help to ensure underrepresented students have equal access to
#3
STEM education (22%)

Provide grants/scholarships to underrepresented students
#4
(19%)

Q22. What is the number ONE action corporations should prioritize most around science, technology, engineering and math

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. (STEM) education? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021 **22**

Diversity and inclusion in STEM – more needs to be done




^ Not asked in UAE

Q27. How much do you agree or disagree with the following statement: It is important to increase diversity and inclusion in science, technology,

engineering and math (STEM) fields?– Agree Summary. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

Q20. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - Underrepresented minority groups often do not receive equal

access to science, technology, engineering or math (STEM) education – Agree Summary. Base= 2022 Total not in UAE (16,196) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 23

There are significant gaps in the STEM workforce, and they are not
improving

**Gender** **Racial/Ethnic** **LGBTQ+**





believe it is staying the

same or getting worse


believe it is staying the
same or getting worse^


believe it is staying the
same or getting worse^


^ Not asked in UAE

Q32. Do you believe the following gaps exist in the STEM workforce? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

Q33. Do you believe the following gaps in the STEM workforce are getting better, worse or staying the same Base= Those who believe there are gaps:
Gender (9,149); Racial/Ethnicity (7,145); LGBTQ+ (6,366) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 24

Women are a source of untapped potential, but lack encouragement
and support to stay in STEM fields






Q20. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - Agree Summary. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 25

Men do not see gender inequities as clearly as women, which
represents an opportunity for advocacy


~~Women~~


Vs.


~~Men~~

Vs.

_% agree_ _% agree_


_% agree_


More needs to be done to encourage and keep

women/girls engaged in STEM education

Women are a source of untapped potential in the

STEM workforce

Women are leaving STEM job positions because

they do not receive enough support

Women/girls are more discouraged from pursuing

engineering than other science fields

Q20. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? - Agree Summary. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021; Women (8,622a); Men (8,576)


_Difference_

87% 81%

_+6ppts_

84% 79%

_+5ppts_

71% _+10ppts_ 61%

65% _+6ppts_ 59%


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 26

Science companies should do more when it comes to
diversity to have greater societal impact


Q27. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021



© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 27

##### Upskilling and trade skills

Skilled trades are needed and offer job opportunities


Q31. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements about skilled trades? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021



© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 29

We trust trade schools, and most believe the earning potential for a
trade education is on par with a 4-year degree



Q31. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements about skilled trades? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021


Believe they would **earn as much money in a**
**skilled trade as they would in a career that**
**requires a degree** from a traditional 4-year
university/college


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 30

Yet, many would not pursue a skilled trade – suggesting an image
problem

**Countries with highest rates of agreement:**

India: 87%

Poland: 83%

Germany and UAE: 81% (tied)

**Countries with lowest rates of agreement:**


Q31. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements about skilled trades? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198)

Fielded Sept-Dec 2021


Mexico and France: 59% (tied)

Colombia and South Korea: 55% (tied)

Brazil and Italy: 48% (tied)


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 31

Following “other passions” is the top barrier to pursuing a skilled
trade

**Top 5 reasons why people do not pursue a skilled trade**

_**Among those who do not have a skilled trade career**_

_**% selected**_

37%


I didn't know skilled trades were

a career option


I don't think I would make

enough money


I had other passions I wanted to

pursue for a career


I couldn't afford a

trade/vocational school to learn a

skilled trade


There isn't enough career growth

opportunity


Q30. What is stopping you/stopped you from pursuing a career in a skilled trade? Base = Those who said they have thought about pursuing a skilled

trade career but don’t currently have one or those who said they have never thought about it (13,537) Fielded Sept-Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 32

Employees expect paid skills training, especially as digital skills foster
career growth





Q16. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 33

Sustainability

People want science to solve environmental issues the most

**Top 5 issues science should solve**

_**% selected**_

Q46. Beyond solving the COVID-19/coronavirus pandemic, which, if any, of the following issues do you most want science to help solve? Please

select top four. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 35

Environmental concerns have intensified over the past year

**Top environmental issues people are** _**more**_ **concerned compared to**

**one year ago**

_**% selected**_

5 ppts 5 ppts 3 ppts 3 ppts 2 ppts

74% 74% 73%
69% 69% 70% 68% 71%

Climate change Intensifying natural disasters Ocean plastics pollution Air pollution Clean water supply

2021 2022

Q34. Compared to one year ago, how concerned are you about each of the following environmental issues? - More concerned Summary. Base=

2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 36

Almost all believe climate change is real, but they do not think that
all their peers are on the same page


Real, and affects me
personally

Real, but doesn't
affect me personally

Not real




#### **93%**

believe climate change is real,
whether it affects them personally or not

Q35. Which of the following statements best describes how you feel about climate change? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept 
Dec 2021

Q38. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Most people in my country believe that climate change is real –

Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 37

Extreme weather and rising temperatures are the top impacts of
climate change

Top **impacts** of climate change:

_% selected_


**#1**


**#2**
Warmer temperatures (69%)


**#3** Biodiversity (56%)

# 70% #4 Disease/illness (53%)

**extreme weather** is

**#5** Food security/access (49%)


**#4** Disease/illness (53%)


Believe **extreme weather** is

the #1 direct impact of climate change


Q36. Do you believe climate change has a direct impact on any of the following? Please select all that apply. Base= 2022 17 -Country Average

(17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 38

Over three-quarters worry about displacements due to extreme
weather
## **79%**

Are concerned t ~~h~~ at t ~~h~~ ~~l~~ oved one
ey or a
may one day be **displaced from where**
**they live due to extreme weather**
**related to climate change**

Q37. Looking to the future, how concerned are you that you and/or a loved one may one day be displaced from where you live due to extreme

weather related to climate change (i.e., severe hurricanes, fires, floods, etc.)? - Somewhat/Very Concerned Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country

Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 39

Science can deliver a more sustainable world


Q38. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Science can help minimize the effects of climate change; People

should follow the science to help make the world more sustainable – Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec

2021



© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 40

Self-evaluation of sustainable practices varies greatly













^ Not asked in UAE

Q38. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? My country is currently doing a good job at becoming more

sustainable – Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 41

Popular ways people mitigate climate change: recycling, reducing
plastic and water use and buying sustainably

**Top 5 actions taken in the past six months to help lessen the effects of climate change**

_**% selected**_

**Most**

**frequent**

54% Recycle materials

~~53%~~ ~~Reduce~~ ~~use~~ ~~of~~ ~~plastic~~

48% Reduce water use

38% Buy sustainable/recyclable products


**Least**

**frequent**


34% Use public transportation


Q39. Which, if any, of the following have you done over the past six months to help lessen the effects of climate change? Please select all that

apply. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 42

Local communities, companies and society as a whole all play a role
in creating a sustainable future





**65%** Find new ways of making renewable energy
to power homes, vehicles, etc.

**61%** Develop new technologies that reduce
car ~~b~~ on ~~di~~ ox ~~id~~ e ~~/~~ green ~~h~~ ouse gas em ~~i~~ ss ~~i~~ ons

**57%** Develop new ways to eliminate waste across
production

**53%** Make fuel-efficient vehicles affordable and

accessible to all

**53%** Develop new technologies to clean and
monitor air pollutants


**50%** use renewable energy sources to
power public buildings

**46%** create more parks and gardens for

greenspace

**44%** create community recycling centers

**42%** promote the use of public
transportation or eco-friendly vehicles

**42%** implement low-carbon public
transportation


**58%** reduce the amount of plastic used in
products

~~**54%**~~ ~~use~~ ~~recycled~~ ~~and~~ ~~renewable~~ ~~materials~~ ~~in~~
products developed

**53%** use renewable energy sources to power their

facilities

**52%** reduce waste created by facilities

**47%** repurpose waste in production


Q41. Which of the following actions, if any, do you think your local community should take to be more sustainable? Please select all that apply.

Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

Q42. Which, if any, of the following actions do you think companies should prioritize in building a more sustainable future for all? Select top five.

Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

Q43. What advancements do you think society should prioritize in the next five years around the environment/sustainability? Please select top five.

Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 43

### Health equity

Access to quality healthcare is considered the number one priority
for most countries

**#1 action for country to prioritize**

Improving access to quality healthcare


Improving access to affordable housing

Improving access to STEM education among
underserved and underrepresented groups

Increasing efforts to minimize climate
change

**13 of 16**

**Countries^**

**rank improving access to**
**quality healthcare as the**

**top action for their**
**country to prioritize**













^Not asked in UAE

Q14. My country should prioritize...? Select top four from the list below. Base= 2022 Total not in UAE (16,196) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 45

Access to quality healthcare is the key to advancing social justice and
change

^Not asked in UAE

Q28. What advancements do you think society should prioritize in the next five years as it relates to social justice and change? Please select top

four. Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 46

Collaboration between corporations and healthcare is a critical
priority

**Top 5 actions for corporations to prioritize in the future:**

_% selected_







^ Not asked in UAE

Q47. As you continue thinking about current events over the last six months (e.g., the coronavirus/COVID-19 outbreak and vaccine development,

record-breaking natural disasters, etc.), which, if any, of the following actions should corporations prioritize in the future (beyond their core

business purpose)? Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 47

Cures for diseases, cancer treatments and addressing mental health
are top healthcare areas for science to address

**Top 5 healthcare advancements science should prioritize**

_**% selected**_

62%


Cures for chronic diseases​ Cancer treatments​ Addressing mental/emotional

health issues​

Q45. Beyond the coronavirus/COVID-19, which FOUR of the following healthcare advancements should science prioritize? Select top four. Base=

2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021


Vaccines for future pandemics​ Addressing the root
causes/social drivers of health

issues​


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 48

Future technology


**+**

The future is expected to bring a heavier reliance on science and
artificial intelligence





Q16. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? In the future, we will be more dependent on scientific knowledge

than ever before – Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

Q15. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements related to artificial intelligence (AI)? Artificial intelligence (AI) is an

exciting technology that impacts my life every day; I worry advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) within the next five years will cause me to lose

my job – Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 50

However, people are split when it comes to trusting how companies
and other entities use AI


“I trust how **private companies**
are using AI”


“I trust how **the government** is
using AI”^


Agree

Disagree

(% _selected_ )

^ Not asked in UAE

Q15. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements related to artificial intelligence (AI)? I trust how private companies

are using artificial intelligence (AI); I trust how the government is using artificial intelligence (AI) - Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17-Country Average

(17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 51

There is concern that AI could increase bias towards
underrepresented groups




^ Not asked in UAE

- Not asked in China

|AI increases the risk of bias and<br>discrimination towards…^<br>The LGBTQ+<br>People of color^* Women^ community^*<br>36% 36% 34%<br>agree agree agree|Col2|
|---|---|
|36%<br>agree|34%<br>agree|


Q15. How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements related to artificial intelligence (AI)? Artificial intelligence (AI)

increases the risk of bias and discrimination toward people of color; Artificial intelligence (AI) increases the risk of bias and discrimination toward

women; Artificial intelligence (AI) increases the risk of bias and discrimination toward the LGBTQ+ community - Agree Summary - Base= 2022 17
Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 52

Still people are excited about futuristic innovations

### ~~**71%**~~

Say they are likely to

accept a ride in an
autonomous, or selfdriving, car where there is

no human driver

Q18. How likely, if at all, are you to do each of the following actions?- Base= 2022 17-Country Average (17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

### **52%**

Say they are likely to
travel to space when it

becomes accessible


© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 53

**In the next** five years, more than half the world expects to
appreciate science more

More likely than the 17-country avg

On par with the 17-country avg

Less likely than the 17-country avg



**53%**

**Believe they will**
**appreciate science**
**more five years from**

**now**












Q12. Looking ahead, how do you believe that your appreciation for science will change over the next five years? Base= 2022 17 -Country Average

(17,198) Fielded Sept - Dec 2021

© 3M 2021 All Rights Reserved. 3M Confidential. 54


